I would like you to understand
the concept of growth engine well.
The most valuable thing would be that
you could analyze the company and
understand how it grows, what is
the main engine of that company.
Let us start with the definition.
I like to define
it as the engine.
It is the mechanism, like any engine,
that helps you, that pushes
you, that helps you grow.
And you also have to do it
sustainably, that is, this will
not grow on time, because you
could, for example, invest
and do an action in medium
and good, capture many
customers on time and grow.
But we don’t talk about that, we talk
about a motor, we talk about something
that pushes you and also that has
to function like a virtuous circle.
The Lean Startup book defines
three types of growth engines.
Companies can usually
fit within one of them,
mainly.
What happens is that this is actually
a classification that isn’t usually
pure, that is, a company can have
something from several engines.
But it helps a lot to use this
model to understand each company
what is its main growth engine,
because from that we will
allow it to be managed better.
Because we will know what metrics
we need to use and above all we
will know what we need to focus
on to give momentum to that engine.
We go with the three.
The first is the payment.
How does a company work with
this type of growth engine?
Well, because they are companies
that invest heavily in attracting
new customers.
What happens is that the customer
lifetime value, what they get for
each customer is much higher or should
be much higher than the investment
they make.
So they get a high margin and
that margin what they do is
reinvest it heavily in a greater
customer capture.
This is possible, that is, this
engine allows you to grow a lot
when your margin is very high
and also when you recover the
investment in a short time,
which is the CAC payback.
If you have these two factors, then
imagine, I’ll put you a case.
Think of a company that
sells e-books and
sells them for 100 euros.
And capturing a customer costs you
10 and also has no marginal
cost because the e-book
already has it amortised and already
has it created.
So, you get a margin of 90.
And invest today and sell the book in
a maximum period of one month, that
is, you turn 10 euros into 100 in
a month.
With those 90 of margin, you
can reinvest the next month
and with those 90 as the cost
of acquiring customers are 10,
you can sell 9 more, that is,
you get 900 euros more.
We are talking about a growth
curve that is really exponential.
What should you focus on if
your company has this growth
engine primarily?
What you have to do is optimize
that rest, that is, increase the
CAC and reduce the cost of customer
acquisition as much as possible.
You also have to have a very
aggressive reinvestment policy.
Any example?
I think Hawkers is a very clear
example of this.
Hawkers sells their glasses
with a very high margin that
allows them to reinvest those
margins in more marketing,
mainly digital marketing
and influencer marketing.
This has made him very attractive.
And I think this is the reason
why companies have been born
that can have a growth
engine quite similar to
Hawkers.
For example, we have a company
that sells low cost watches that,
thanks to the margin they
get, are watches that cost, imagine,
75 euros.
They have a very high margin.
That allows them to reinvest
in marketing, allows them to quickly
reach a certain volume of business.
The second of the growth engines
is very different because here
in this case these companies
are not obliged to invest in
cost of acquiring customers.
Instead of your product, your service
is spreading with a virus all over the
world.
Because your customers get new customers.
This has a lot of implications
for the business model.
One of them is to remember the
balance between customer left value
and customer acquisition cost.
For example, in the case of a customer
left value, the customer
left value is lower.
In addition, you can allow to monetize little
to each customer because it has cost
them very little to capture it.
In addition, in some cases they
are encouraged to do so because
it is easier to grow your product.
For example, with a freemium model
your product if customers do
not have to pay.
What do you have to focus on?
The virus is spreading.
You need to focus on your customers
being encouraged to share
it with others.
You have to focus on making your
product as viral as possible, etc.
And the examples?
Hotmail is a good example of
a viral product or Facebook.
Both meet the requirements
we have seen.
They have grown like viruses all over the world.
The cost of capture has been very low.
They have not had to invest
heavily in user acquisition,
traditional advertising
mind, etc.
It is the customers who
have brought them new
customers.
Now, we go to the last model.
This model is called Sticky in English
and the literal translation from
Spanish is sticky that sounds
maybe a bit weird.
These are companies where the
key is engagement, the key
is retention.
The key is that customers are
customers for a long time.
They obviously have to make an
effort to capture new customers.
And they will have to invest
in capturing new customers, obviously.
But it doesn’t really work like the
first model we’ve seen from the backpack.
In this case, it works in a different way.
The main thing you have to do is not
lose customers.
At least what you have to focus
on is that the ratio of highs is
greater than the ratio of lows.
You will understand it with examples.
and gym.
A gym comes at a time when it reaches
a stable level of partners.
What you really need to focus on
is not losing them.
Because if you didn’t lose any, which
is something that obviously doesn’t
exist, you’t have to spend money on
capturing customers.
But if you lose 40% of your customers
every year, you have to invest
in advertising, in customer
acquisition to recover
that rate.
And really here what happens
is that in a gym will reach
a saturation point, but in
scalable companies the saturation
point comes much later.
Let’s think of a company like
Tulotero, for example.
In Tulotero the key is that the
ratio of altas is greater than the
ratio of lows.
Why is?
Because probably the customers, the
players in Tulotero will be players
for their entire life or for
many years they are used
to playing in Tulotero.
And the ratio of drops, the chant
rate, is very, very, very low.
So simply with you being able to
make your ratio of highs higher
than the ratio of downs, you
will grow very sustainably.
Here is the mechanism.
The last example is Netflix.
Netflix works in a similar way.
In this case it is a subscription
service, just like the gym,
not like in Tulotero, which are
punctual purchases, but what Netflix
has to encourage is engagement.
It is the recurrence of use, it is
that you never get off, it is that you
are very happy with the service so
that you never get off.
And then there comes a time when the
cost of customer acquisition is something
that is almost irrelevant.
If you’ve been a Netflix customer
for 20 years, the day we’ve
been a Netflix customer for 20
years, what Netflix has spent
on capturing us is totally irrelevant.
In this case, the most important
ratio is retention.
and thanks!